the Surgeon General is now admitting
something that you have been saying for
a while which is that we're now on a
point on our own epidemiological curve
where you can basically see our future
by by looking at the timeline of where
Italy was about ten days or two weeks
ago if that is where we're heading with
the death rate spiking
now in Italy with the Lombardi
government's governor saying we are
about to not be able to offer care in
hospitals anymore
if if that's where we are what is what
what priorities should derive from that
what are the single what are the most
important things our medical system
should be doing right now to prepare for
that happening to us within two weeks
okay I will predict that we since we are
going down the path of Italy and we are
a much bigger country than Italy that we
will surpass Italy in the number of dead
in a few weeks because we are following
the Italian model not the Asian model I
don't understand why we're looking at a
small town like veau in Italy when that
same lesson that you have to test an
isolate as many people as possible was a
lesson learned in cities all over Asia
months ago and we have been paying very
little attention to what they're doing I
think I've talked before about doing
fever checks at every building and and
doing testing as much as possible and
how you do the safe testing but on
Hospital preparation there's we're doing
things like ending elective surgery on
our hospitals which is great that's step
number one
fine but in China and in other places
they segregated the hospitals they'd
said okay you three hospitals are going
to be designated to do nothing but coded
patients and the others are going to
handle the heart attacks and the babies
that need to be born and the car crashes
and everything else because we don't
want the coronavirus patients infecting
the regular emergency patients if they
couldn't do that they would create
separate wings in the hospitals it was
basically known as the dirty wing and
the clean wing the wing of the hospital
had
nothing but coronavirus patients and the
other side had nothing but other
emergency patients and the two staffs
never crossed the zone it was it assumed
that like those nursing home employees
they would carry the virus from one side
to the other inside those inside those
hospitals they would build walls in the
wings with windows in them so that award
became an isolation board and you went
into it basically yet like you do into
an Ebola treatment center you had a grey
area where you did put on your personal
protection effective gear under the eyes
of a nurse who knew saw that you were
doing it perfectly you would go through
the ward in one direction only and come
out at the other end when you'd finished
reading patients and you would then take
off your gear under the eyes of a nurse
you don't have to do the kind of
advanced crazy disinfection that they do
in a bowl Awards with chlorine showers
and everything but you have to take it
off carefully because it can contaminate
you the other thing they did all over
Asia is for the mild cases the mild to
moderate cases in other words people who
did not need to be hospitalized they
didn't go home they went into isolation
centers they went in you know we have
all sorts of empty buildings around now
Madison Square Garden is empty the
Barclays Center is empty high school
gymnasiums all over the city are
complete those become sort of miniature
hospitals for the people who are
infected but don't need to be put into a
hospital because that way they don't
infect their own families it's it's it's
80% of the klas 75 to 80% of the
clusters there were spreads within
families and it's important to stop that
and these were you know there were beds
there were oxygen masked it was really
basic hair but that's how you brought
people through when they were in there
for two to three weeks and most of them
are covered and were able to go home and
they were survivors and they were able
to donate blood to help other people
survive they were able to walk the
streets they're okay they've recovered
and they're thrilled we're not planning
that here as far as I can tell
my guest is Donald McNeil science and
health reporter with the New York Times
who has incredible international
experience with these things